---
title: "Contributing to Open Source"
teaching: 15
exercises: 0
---

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: questions 

- Should I contribute to an open source project?

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: objectives

- ...

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

# Contributing to Open Source

## Why Contribute?


::::::::::::::::: callout

## AI and Open Source Contributions

At the time of writing there is some controversy in the open-source community on how to handle AI-based contributions to open-source codebases.  Some projects have enthusiastically embraced contributions generated by LLMs, but many projects are facing the problem of large numbers of low-quality AI-generated pull requests.  These have to be triaged by human project maintainers: people spending effort to see if there is anything worthwhile in what they are being given; people who would much rather be writing new features or fixing bugs themselves.

Additionally there are still some unresolved legal questions about the copyright status of LLM generated code, and that status varies from country to country.

As a result many projects have very strict policies about AI use, including many outright bans.

Make sure that if you want to contribute to a project you follow their guidelines. And even if you are working on a project which permits LLM usage, you will likely get a better reception for your contributions if you write any issues and pull requests yourself: at the end of the day you need to convince a human that your contribution is useful and to do that you need to *engage* with them.


:::::::::::::::::::::::::

